.\"
.\" lprint-add man page for LPrint, a Label Printer Utility
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2019-2021 by Michael R Sweet.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH lprint-add 1 "LPrint" "2021-12-21" "Michael R Sweet"
.SH NAME
lprint-add \- add a printer queue.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lprint
.B add
[
.B \-u
.I SYSTEM-URI
]
.B \-d
.I PRINTER
.B \-m
.I DRIVER-NAME
.B \-v
.I DEVICE-URI
[
.B \-o
.I OPTION=VALUE
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command creates a label printer queue using the specified name, driver, and driver.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by
.B lprint add:
.TP 5
\fB\-d \fIPRINTER\fR
Specifies the name of the printer queue.
.TP 5
\fB\-m \fIDRIVER-NAME\fR
Specifies the name of the printer driver.
See
.BR lprint-drivers (1)
for the command to list the available printer drivers.
.TP 5
\fB\-o \fIOPTION=VALUE\fR
Specifies the default value for the given option name.
See
.BR lprint-submit (1)
for a list of supported options.
.TP 5
\fB\-o label-mode-configured\fI=VALUE\fR
Specifies the label printing mode: "applicator", "cutter", "cutter-delayed", "kiosk", "peel-off", "peel-off-prepeel", "rewind", "rfid", or "tear-off".
.TP 5
\fB\-o label-tear-offset-configured\fI=NNNin\fR
.TP 5
\fB\-o label-tear-offset-configured\fI=NNNmm\fR
Specifies the label tear-off offset in inches ("NNNin") or millimeters ("NNNmm").
.TP 5
\fB\-o printer-darkness\fI=NNN\fR
Specifies the base darkness setting for all print jobs as a percentage.
0 represents the lightest printing while 100 represents the darkest printing.
.TP 5
\fB\-o printer-geo-location=geo:\fI=LATLON\fR
Specifies the geographic location of the printer as a "geo:" URI.
.TP 5
\fB\-o printer-location\fI=LOCATION\fR
Specifies the human-readable location, for example "Rack 42".
.TP 5
\fB\-o printer-organization\fI=ORGANIZATION\fR
Specifies the organization name, for example "Acme, Inc.".
.TP 5
\fB\-o printer-organizational-unit\fI=UNIT\fR
Specifies the organizational unit, for example "Shipping Department".
.TP 5
\fB\-u \fISYSTEM-URI\fR
Specifies a remote LPrint server to use.
The "SYSTEM-URI" is of the form "ipps://HOSTNAME:PORT/ipp/system".
.TP 5
\fB\-v \fIDEVICE-URI\fR
Specifies the device for the printer queue.
The value can be a socket: URI such as "socket://11.22.33.44" or a usb: URI as listed by the
.BR lprint-devices (1)
command.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lprint (1),
.BR lprint-delete (1),
.BR lprint-devices (1),
.BR lprint-drivers (1),
.BR lprint-modify (1),
.BR lprint-options (1),
.BR lprint-submit (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2019-2021 by Michael R Sweet.
