.\"
.\" lprint-submit man page for LPrint, a Label Printer Utility
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2019-2020 by Michael R Sweet.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH lprint-submit 1 "LPrint" "January 11, 2020" "Michael R Sweet"
.SH NAME
lprint-submit \- submit a file for printing.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lprint
[
.B submit
] [
.B \-d
.I PRINTER
] [
.B \-u
.I PRINTER-URI
] [
.B \-n
.I COPIES
] [
.B \-o
.I OPTION=VALUE
] [
.B \-t
.I TITLE
] [
.I FILE [ ... FILE ]
]
.br
.B lprint
[
.B submit
] [
.B \-d
.I PRINTER
] [
.B \-u
.I PRINTER-URI
] [
.B \-n
.I COPIES
] [
.B \-o
.I OPTION=VALUE
] [
.B \-t
.I TITLE
]
\-
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command submits one or more files for printing.
The first form prints the named files.
The second form copies the print file from the standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by
.B lprint submit:
.TP 5
\fB\-d \fIPRINTER\fR
Specifies the name of the printer queue.
If not specified, the default printer is used.
.TP 5
\fB\-n \fICOPIES\fR
Specifies the number of copies.
.TP 5
\fB\-o media=\fISIZE-NAME\fR
Specifies the label size.
.TP 5
\fB\-o media-source=\fIROLL-NAME\fR
Specifies the label roll.
.TP 5
\fB\-o media-top-offset=\fINNN\fBin\fR
.TP 5
\fB\-o media-top-offset=\fINNN\fBmm\fR
Specifies the distance to offset printing from the top of the label in inches ("NNNin") or millimeters ("NNNmm").
.TP 5
\fB\-o media-tracking=continuous\fR
.TP 5
\fB\-o media-tracking=mark\fR
.TP 5
\fB\-o media-tracking=web\fR
Specifies how labels are tracked on the carrier backing - "continuous" for a continuous label or receipt paper, "mark" for labels that are separated with a visible mark on the carrier backing, or "web" for labels that are separated with a hole in the carrier backing.
.TP 5
\fB\-o media-type=continuous\fR
.TP 5
\fB\-o media-type=labels\fR
Specifies the type of roll media being used - "continuous" for continuous labels or receipt paper, or "labels" for cut labels on a carrier backing.
.TP 5
.B \-o orientation-requested=portrait
Print images in portrait orientation.
.TP 5
.B \-o orientation-requested=landscape
Print images in landscape (90 degrees counter-clockwise) orientation.
.TP 5
.B \-o orientation-requested=reverse-portrait
Print images in reverse-portrait (upside down) orientation.
.TP 5
.B \-o orientation-requested=reverse-landscape
Print images in reverse-landscape (90 degrees clockwise) orientation.
.TP 5
.B \-o orientation-requested=none
Print images in automatic (portrait or landscape) orientation.
.TP 5
.B \-o print-color-mode=bi-level
Only print black or white when printing images.
.TP 5
.B \-o print-color-mode=monochrome
Halftone shades of gray when printing images.
.B \-o print-content-optimize=auto
Optimize printing automatically based on the type and content of the file.
.B \-o print-content-optimize=graphic
Optimize printing for graphics only.
.B \-o print-content-optimize=photo
Optimize printing for photos.
.B \-o print-content-optimize=text
Optimize printing for text only.
.B \-o print-content-optimize=text-and-graphic
Optimize printing for text and graphics.
.TP 5
\fB\-o print-darkness=\fINNN\fR
Specifies the print darkness from -100 (lightest) to 100 (darkest).
.TP 5
\fB\-o print-quality=draft\fR
Print using draft quality.
.TP 5
\fB\-o print-quality=normal\fR
Print using normal quality.
.TP 5
\fB\-o print-quality=high\fR
Print using high/best quality.
.TP 5
\fB\-o print-speed=\fINNNin\fR
.TP 5
\fB\-o print-speed=\fINNNmm\fR
Specifies the print speed in inches ("NNNin") or millimeters ("NNNmm") per second.
.TP 5
\fB\-o printer-resolution=\fINNN\fBdpi\fR
Specifies the print resolution in dots per inch.
.TP 5
\fB\-t \fITITLE\fR
Specifies the print job name.
.TP 5
\fB\-u \fIPRINTER-URI\fR
Specifies an "ipp:" or "ipps:" URI for a remote printer.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lprint-cancel (1),
.BR lprint-default (1),
.BR lprint-options (1).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2019-2020 by Michael R Sweet.
