.\"
.\" lprint-server man page for LPrint, a Label Printer Utility
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2019-2021 by Michael R Sweet.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH lprint-server 1 "LPrint" "November 4, 2021" "Michael R Sweet"
.SH NAME
lprint-server \- start a label print server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lprint
.B server
[
.B \-o
.I OPTION=VALUE
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command starts a label print server.
Normally a server is started automatically as needed, however you can run the server manually to listen on a public network address and/or enable different logging options.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by
.B lprint server:
.TP 5
\fB\-o admin\-group=\fIGROUP\fR
Specifies that remote configuration is authenticated against the named group.
If not specified or the value "none" is given then any authenticated user may remotely configure lprint.
.TP 5
\fB\-o auth\-service=\fISERVICE\fR
Specifies the PAM service to use to authenticate for remote configuration requests.
If not specified or the value "none" is given then printers can only be added, modified, or deleted locally.
.TP 5
\fB\-o listen-hostname=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
Listens for IPP connections on the specified hostname/address(es).
If not specified, uses the wildcard addresses to allow connections from any address.
.TP 5
.B \-o log\-file=\-
Specifies that all messages are written to the standard error.
.TP 5
.B \-o log\-file=syslog
Specifies that all messages are sent to the syslog service.
.TP 5
\fB\-o log\-file=\fRFILENAME\fR
Specifies that all messages are written to the named file.
If the file already exists, messages are appended to it.
The default log file is "$TMPDIR/lprintUID.log".
.TP 5
.B \-o log\-level=error
Specifies that only error messages should be logged.
This is the default.
.TP 5
.B \-o log\-level=info
Specifies that error and informational messages should be logged.
.TP 5
.B \-o log\-level=debug
Specifies that all messages should be logged.
.TP 5
\fB\-o server\-hostname=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
Specifies the hostname to advertise for the server.
The default is the system hostname.
.TP 5
\fB\-o server\-options=\fIOPTIONS\fI
Specifies a comma-delimited list of server options.
See "SERVER OPTIONS" below.
.TP 5
\fB\-o server\-port=\fIPORT\fR
Listens for IPP connections on the specified port.
If not specified, a random port between 9000 and 9999 is chosen.
.TP 5
\fB\-o spool\-directory=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
Specifies a directory that holds pending print files.
If not specified, a subdirectory in the system temporary directory is used.
.SH SERVER OPTIONS
By default,
.B lprint server
uses the "multi-queue" and "web-interface" options.
The \fB\-o server\-options=\fIOPTIONS\fR option can be used to override the default options, where "OPTIONS" is a comma-delimited list of any of the following:
.TP 5
.B dnssd\-host
When resolving conflicts, add the DNS-SD hostname instead of a serial number or UUID.
.TP 5
.B no\-multi\-queue
Do no support multiple print queues.
.TP 5
.B raw\-socket
Provide a raw ("JetDirect") socket for each printer on port 91xx.
.TP 5
.B usb\-printer
Enable a USB printer gadget for the default printer (Linux only for Raspberry Pi and similar embedded SBCs).
.TP 5
.B no\-web\-interface
Disables the web interface.
.TP 5
.B web\-log
Enables the log file web page.
.TP 5
.B web\-network
Enables the network settings web page.
.TP 5
.B web\-remote
Enables remote queue management.
.TP 5
.B web\-security
Enables the user/password settings web page.
.TP 5
.B web\-tls
Enables the TLS settings web page.
.TP 5
.B no\-tls
Disables TLS support.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lprint (1),
.BR lprint-shutdown (1).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2019-2021 by Michael R Sweet.
