.\"
.\" Main man page for LPrint, a Label Printer Utility
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2019-2020 by Michael R Sweet.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH lprint 1 "LPrint" "January 5, 2020" "Michael R Sweet"
.SH NAME
lprint \- a label printer utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lprint
[
.I SUB-COMMAND
] [ OPTIONS ] [ FILES ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lprint
is a label printer utility that can be run standalone or as a dedicated IPP Everywhere network service.
.B lprint
supports printing PNG images, Apple/PWG raster files, and printer-specific label files to USB and network label printers.
If no sub-command is specified, "submit" is assumed.
.SH SUB-COMMANDS
The following sub-commands are recognized by
.B lprint:
.TP 5
add
Add a printer queue.
.TP 5
cancel
Cancel one or more print jobs.
.TP 5
default
Set the default printer queue.
.TP 5
delete
Delete a printer queue.
.TP 5
devices
List connected printers.
.TP 5
drivers
List the supported drivers.
.TP 5
jobs
List pending print jobs.
.TP 5
modify
Modify a printer queue.
.TP 5
options
List supported options.
.TP 5
printers
List the printer queues.
.TP 5
server
Start a server.
.TP 5
shutdown
Shutdown a running server.
.TP 5
status
Show the status of a printer or all printers.
.TP 5
submit
Submit a file for printing.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lprint-add (1),
.BR lprint-cancel (1),
.BR lprint-default (1),
.BR lprint-delete (1),
.BR lprint-devices (1),
.BR lprint-drivers (1),
.BR lprint-jobs (1),
.BR lprint-modify (1),
.BR lprint-options (1),
.BR lprint-printers (1),
.BR lprint-server (1),
.BR lprint-shutdown (1),
.BR lprint-status (1),
.BR lprint-submit (1),
.BR lprint.conf (5)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2019-2020 by Michael R Sweet.
